SKY-4743 Add dev docs for Contentful integration (#249)
amplitude/amplitude-dev-center: docs/experiment/integrations/contentful.md

---
title: Contentful Plugin for Amplitude Experiment
---

!!!beta "Closed Beta"
    The Amplitude Experiment Contentful plugin is in closed beta. Contact your Amplitude representative or email experiment@amplitude.com if you're interested.

Amplitude Experiment is built for flexibility to fit in with any architecture and a variety of needs. This app offers an easy and flexible way to build out your content on top of Amplitude Experiment to help grow your marketing efforts.

## Features

- Run A/B tests on Amplitude Experiment and author content in Contentful
- Read different properties (refreshed every 5 seconds) from Amplitude Experiment and build your content around this information

## Requirements

To use this plugin, you'll need the following:

- Access to an Amplitude plan with Amplitude Experiment enabled.
- A Management API key, which you can find in the Experiment side bar.

## Installation

### Step 1 - Install the app in your Contentful instance under the Apps tab

Type in your Org URL (if you are not sure, check out your url: `https://app.amplitude.com/experiment/<ORG_URL>/dashboard`).

> Provide your management API key created in the Getting Started section.  For security purposes, management API keys aren't visible to others on your team looking  once you install the app.

Reviewer: nit: one space between "looking" and "once"

> ---

Reviewer: What does the rollout for Conteful look like? Are you okay adding this to dev docs if it is not rolled out to 100%?

Reviewer 2: I would put a closed beta tag at the top of the doc.

```
!!!beta "Closed Beta"
    The Amplitude Experiment Contentful plugin is in closed beta. Contact your Amplitude representative or email experiment@amplitude.com if you're interested.
```

> title: Contentful Plugin for Amplitude Experiment

Reviewer: Is the contentful integration only for experiment of for flags also?

Author: Just for experiment for now. If there's enough customer demand we can extend this to flags too.

---

> When it comes to feature flag delivery and experimentation, one size does not fit all. Amplitude Experiment is built for flexibility to fit in with any architecture and a variety of needs. This app offers an easy and flexible way to build out your content on top of Amplitude Experiment to help grow your marketing efforts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Amplitude Experiment is built for flexibility to fit in with any architecture and a variety of needs. This app offers an easy and flexible way to build out your content on top of Amplitude Experiment to help grow your marketing efforts.
```

We should mention Contentful specifically in this opening paragraph.

    The Amplitude Experiment Contentful plugin is in closed beta. Contact your Amplitude representative or email experiment@amplitude.com if you're interested.

> Amplitude Experiment is built for flexibility to fit in with any architecture and a variety of needs. This app offers an easy and flexible way to build out your content on top of Amplitude Experiment to help grow your marketing efforts.

Reviewer 3: The intro should mention Contentful. This reads like an introduction to Experiment only.

Author: Just added some more details around Contentful. Can you please take a look @markzegarelli? Thanks!

> ### Features

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Features
```

> - Run A/B tests and multi armed bandit experiments on Amplitude Experiment and author content in Contentful

Reviewer: do we want to wait until multi armed bandit is GAed to add that?

Author: Ooh yeah, let me remove that for now.

> - Read different properties (refreshed regularly) from Amplitude Experiment and build your content around this information

Reviewer: how often is `refreshed regularly`?

Author: Every 5 seconds! Should I add this?

Reviewer: sure you can add it. unless you think it is going to change in the future

- Run A/B tests on Amplitude Experiment and author content in Contentful
- Read different properties (refreshed every 5 seconds) from Amplitude Experiment and build your content around this information

> ### Requirements

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Requirements
```

To use this plugin, you'll need the following:

- Access to an Amplitude plan with Amplitude Experiment enabled.
- A Management API key, which you can find in the Experiment side bar.

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer 3: Let's remove this section. You list the requirements above.

> To use this app, you will need access to an Amplitude plan with Amplitude Experiment enabled. You will need a Management API key which you can find [instructions on how to configure here](https://www.docs.developers.amplitude.com/guides/amplitude-keys-guide/?h=keys#management-api-key).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use this plugin, you'll need the following:

- Access to an Amplitude plan with Amplitude Experiment enabled. 
- A Management API key, which you can find in the Experiment side bar.
```
The link provided doesn't expand on much about Management API Keys.

> ### Getting Started

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Getting Started
```

> In order to integrate your Contentful instance with Amplitude Experiment, you will need:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To integrate your Contentful instance with Amplitude Experiment, you will need:
```

This is duplicative of the Requirements section above. Recommend removing the former.

To integrate your Contentful instance with Amplitude Experiment, you will need:

- An Amplitude account with access to Amplitude Experiment

> - [A management API key](https://www.docs.developers.amplitude.com/guides/amplitude-keys-guide/?h=keys#management-api-key)

Reviewer: do we have any permissions checks for who can create management API keys? Do you have to be admin? Do we want to include that in this doc?

Author: Since we link to the management API docs for the key I don't think we need to add more details here: https://www.docs.developers.amplitude.com/guides/amplitude-keys-guide/?h=keys#management-api-key

> ### How to install

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Installation
```

> #### Step 1 - Install the app in your Contentful instance under the Apps tab

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Step 1 - Install the app in your Contentful instance under the Apps tab
```

> Type in your Org URL (if you are not sure, check out your url: `https://app.amplitude.com/experiment/<ORG_URL>/dashboard`).

Reviewer: nit: for EU, it is eu.app.amplitude.com. But not sure how we deal with that elsewhere in dev docs? @markzegarelli

Reviewer 3: We should list both.

Author: This was actually just to show the user how to find their ORG_URL from their URL in the browser. Is there a better way to describe how the user gets their ORG_URL?

Reviewer: this is fine. you can also go here https://app.amplitude.com/analytics/amplidemo/settings/plan-admin to find the org url. Replace amplidemo with your org url

Type in your Org URL (if you are not sure, check out your url: `https://app.amplitude.com/experiment/<ORG_URL>/dashboard`).

> Provide your management API key created in the Getting Started section. Note: This management API key will no longer be visible to others on your team looking at this app configuration in the UI once you install the app for security purposes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Provide your management API key created in the Getting Started section.  For security purposes, management API keys aren't visible to others on your team looking  once you install the app.
```

> You should now be able to see a Content model in Contentful under the Content model tab called “Variation Container.”

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You should see a Content model in Contentful on the **Content model** tab called “Variation Container.”
```

What is called "Variation Container"? The content model?

Author: Yes, the content model in Contentful is called "Variant Container." Heads up that I just updated the name from "Variation Container" to "Variant Container."

> Provide your management API key created in the Getting Started section. Note: This management API key will no longer be visible to others looking at this app configuration once you install the app.

Reviewer: do you want to add anything other than `Note: This management API key will no longer be visible to others looking at this app configuration once you install the app.` to make people who are worried about security less worried about things like exposing the management API key to a 3rd party that could use this maliciously.

Reviewer: Out of scope for your current work: Do we want to make the management API key only have permissions to the routes you need for contentful and not have it have all permissions

Author: I agree with you that the permissioning for the management API key can be improved! Will address your first comment.

> #### Step 2 - Add a variation container to one of your content models

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Step 2 - Add a variation container to one of your content models
```

         "image": {
           "__typename": "Asset",
           "sys": {
             "id": "6WFOK0460CwrW7aChl1QjM"
           },
           "title": "Loyalty Green",
           "description": "",
           "width": 1920,
           "height": 720,
           "url": "https://images.ctfassets.net/4y4crvvoco9a/6WFOK0460CwrW7aChl1QjM/e52fb2129b848203f6006ff9881309d9/Hero-_-loyalty-green.jpg",
           "contentType": "image/jpeg"
         }
       }
     ]
   }
 }
}
```

There’s some helpful metadata about the experiment embedded under “experiment” and “experimentId” (this corresponds to the experiment’s flag key) for your convenience. In your frontend, you’ll use two fields: “meta,” and “variationsCollection.” In summary, you’ll be using Amplitude Experiment in your front end to get the variation for the user in your application. Then, you’ll check against the meta dictionary to see what the associated Contentful entry ID is for this particular variant. Then, in `variationsCollection` you can iterate through the array of linked entries, and find the entry with the ID you found in the `meta` dictionary.

Here is a code example in React and Typescript:

> ```typescript

Reviewer: nit: can we get syntax highlighting on the dev docs site?

Reviewer 3: We have syntax highlighting with Pygments. It is admittedly pretty poor. For the new version of the docs site in development right now, we're moving to Torchlight.

import { Experiment } from '@amplitude/experiment-js-client';
 import sdk from 'contentful-sdk';

 export const experiment = Experiment.initialize(process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_AMPLITUDE_EXPERIMENT_CLIENT_KEY || "", {
 debug: true,
  });
 const [hero, setHero] = useState<Hero | null>(null);
 useEffect(() => {
   const matchExperimentData = async () => {
     await experiment.fetch({
       user_id: userId,
     });
     const heroBanner = sdk.getEntry(‘ENTRY_ID_HERE’);
     const variant = experiment.variant(heroBanner?.experimentId ?? 'control');
     let resolvedVariant;
     if (heroBanner && variant.value) {
       const variation = heroBanner.meta[variant.value];
       resolvedVariant = heroBanner.variationsCollection?.items.find(hero => {
         return hero?.__typename === 'Hero' && hero?.sys.id === variation;
       });
       setHero(resolvedVariant);
     }
   };
   matchExperimentData();
 }, [heroBanner, userId]);
```

> 

Reviewer: Do we want to make any callouts about remembering that some users may get "off"? Especially, if non-engineers are going to be using Contentful they may forget about that case

Author: Just added the blurb below, let me know if that can be worded better.

Reviewer: looks good

---
title: Contentful Plugin for Amplitude Experiment
---

!!!beta "Closed Beta"
    The Amplitude Experiment Contentful plugin is in closed beta. Contact your Amplitude representative or email experiment@amplitude.com if you're interested.

The Contentful plugin for Amplitude Experiment enables businesses to create variations of content in Contentful, and use Experiment to control which variant users see, and track performance of those variants.

## Features

- Run A/B tests on Amplitude Experiment and author content in Contentful
- Read different properties (refreshed every 5 seconds) from Amplitude Experiment and build your content around this information

## Requirements

To use the plugin, ensure you have the following:

> - Access to an Amplitude plan with Amplitude Experiment enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Access to an Amplitude plan with Amplitude Experiment enabled.
- The Contentful Plugin for Amplitude Experiment, to be sent by the Amplitude Experiment team.
```

- Your Amplitude Org URL value. This value appears in the URL you use to access Amplitude: `https://app.amplitude.com/experiment/<ORG_URL>/dashboard`
- A Management API key, which you can find in the Experiment side bar.

## Installation and use

Complete the following steps in Contentful and Amplitude to add and activate the Contentful plugin for Amplitude Experiment.

### Install the plugin

> 1. In Contentful, search for #### in the Contentful App Marketplace. Click #### to install the plugin.

Author: The app is currently not publicly listed in the Contentful App Marketplace and will instead be shared via a link when the user contacts experiment@amplitude.com if they are interested.

Reviewer 3: @hthr-lee Cool! What status will this release under? I'll add an admonition at the top, and explain the need to contact the team to get the plugin.

It's best practice that once a user gets to installation instructions, they should be able to move through them right away, so we want to call out the need to contact the team higher in the doc.

Author: It should be under `closed beta` status. I added something here: https://github.com/amplitude/amplitude-dev-center/pull/249/files#diff-c18ebe11aab8d0938d4a850fe32e1a53abaaa98d3cf2526c776445ce7accd725R6 feel free to change it!

> 1. In Contentful, search for #### in the Contentful App Marketplace. Click #### to install the plugin.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Install the plugin you receive from the Amplitude Experiment team.
```

## Requirements

To use the plugin, ensure you have the following:

- Access to an Amplitude plan with Amplitude Experiment enabled.
- Your Amplitude Org URL value. This value appears in the URL you use to access Amplitude: `https://app.amplitude.com/experiment/<ORG_URL>/dashboard`
- A Management API key, which you can find in the Experiment side bar.

> ## Installation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Installation and use
```
